1
Chapter Three
From Where the Water Runs

Adrian stole the first kiss on accident. She had been wading in the creek with Pythia again,
the creek curled around the base of the hill—pebbled and shallow and cold—when she stepped over
a sharp drop-off and floundered in the sudden depth, hooves flailing, head submerged. Pythia pulled
her up before she had time to be afraid.
“Careful, dumbass,” she scolded.
Adrian coughed up a mouthful of river and laughed. Her curly hair was flattened to the top
of her head, and two small horns poked out. “Why? I have my own personal lifeguard.”
“The first rescue is free. Next time’s gonna cost you.”
Pythia glided to the muddy bank, Adrian in tow. She fumbled as she set her down, and their
lips and noses bumped clumsily. Adrian laughed again.
Pythia’s gills flapped open and shut in a flustered sort of way.
“What’s your mom making for dinner?” Adrian asked to distract her. “Can I come over and
eat with you guys?”
“She’s not my mom.”
“Oh. I just figured she was, ‘cause you live together.”
“We look nothing alike. She’s not even a nereid.” The dumbass was implied this time.
Adrian considered this. She had only seen Pythia’s guardian from a distance. The woman had
burnt-orange hair, a round face, and pointed ears. Pythia was darker, leaner, more fluid. The small

2
mountain town was populated almost exclusively by satyrs, so Adrian had limited knowledge of
other species; meeting Pythia earlier that year had been something of a revelation.
“Who is she, then?” asked Adrian.
“A friend.” She ducked underwater before Adrian could ask anything else. Her hair billowed
above her weightlessly like an astronaut on the moon. It was as good a diversion tactic as any.

Pythia lived in a cobblestone house at the river’s edge. Adrian trudged downstream with her,
fatigue gnawing at her legs—what satyrs possessed in rock-climbing endurance, they lacked in
aquatic stamina. She was relieved when the house bobbed into view.
“Theo’s probably not home yet,” said Pythia. “But we can go inside.”
“Alright—one second.” Adrian clomped her hooves into the grass, shaking off the clotted
mud.
“You’re such a neat freak.”
“I’m a polite guest.”
“Whatever you wanna call it.”
They sat on the living room carpet listening to the radio while Pythia did magic. She turned a
plastic water bottle into a teacup, made a pillow on the couch disappear, and guessed what number
Adrian was thinking of in one shot. Adrian clapped ecstatically after every trick.
“I didn’t know nereids could do all that,” she said, amazed.

3
“I’m extra powerful.” Pythia’s eyes flickered away from Adrian’s. “Don’t tell anyone,
though.”
“I won’t.”
“Promise?”
“Promise.”
Pythia’s lips twitched, prodding a small dimple out of her left cheek.
“Is that why you don’t live with your real parents?” asked Adrian. “Cause you have too much
magic?”
She nodded, not looking up. “It wasn’t safe for me in the ocean.”
“I’m sorry.”
“It’s alright. I like it here.”
Pythia’s not-mother came home with a pizza box and a bag of raw shrimp. She greeted
Adrian warmly.
“I’ve heard a lot about you,” she said, extending her hand. “Call me Theo.”
Her eyes were moss-colored, and a waft of freshly cut grass clung to her cardigan. Telltale
dryad scent, deduced Adrian.
“Nice to meet you, Ms. Theo.”
“Kiss-ass,” said Pythia.

4
Theo raised an eyebrow, and Pythia muttered a half-apology. They sat around the kitchen
table. While Theo and Adrian divvied up the pizza, Pythia clawed into the bag of shrimp with great
gusto—hunks of ice splintered across the room as she noisily scrounged up fish after frozen fish.
Adrian put on her best conversing-with-adults voice. “How was your day, Ms. Theo?”
She grinned. “Not bad. Just busy. Did Py tell you what I do?”
“Don’t call me that.” A half-chewed shrimp fell out of Pythia’s mouth.
“No, she didn’t,” answered Adrian.
“I’m a social worker. I mainly do school counseling now, but I sometimes help out with
child welfare.”
“I heard that dryads are usually botanists or gardeners,” said Adrian. “It’s cool you’re doing
something different.”
Theo’s answering smile was polite, but not as wide as before. “I enjoy it.”
Comfortable silence settled over them, broken only by Pythia’s steady munching.
“High school is going fast,” said Adrian. “I don’t really know what I wanna do after.”
“That’s alright,” said Theo.
Pythia smirked. “You should be a lifeguard. You’d be a natural.”

Adrian’s phone buzzed at six in the morning.
“Hello?”
“Theo’s dad died.”

5
Adrian sat up slowly, her elbow sinking into the pillow. “What?”
“He died.”
“How?”
“He didn’t wake up this morning.”
“But isn’t he a dryad? How could he die?”
“He’s human,” said Pythia. “Theo’s mom is a dryad, but her dad was human.”
This took Adrian about ten seconds to process. She rubbed her eyes. “It’s still early. Maybe
he’s just sleeping in.”
“He’s dead, Adrian.”
A coil of fear wormed into her chest. She had only seen death in the form of roadkill and
couldn’t imagine a corpse without imagining a halo of flies and clotted blood. “Did it hurt?”
“Theo’s mom said it was peaceful. Whatever that means.”
Adrian was unconvinced, but she let the issue rest. “What’s gonna happen?”
“A funeral, obviously.”
“Oh. Is there—is there anything you need?”
“You can come with me.”
“Am I allowed to? I didn’t know Theo’s dad.”
“Well, I knew him, and you’re allowed to come if I say you are.”

6
Adrian pictured Pythia standing alone in a misty cemetery, hugging her arms to her chest. “I’ll
be there,” she said.
Pythia hung up without saying goodbye.

The service was predictably somber. It was held outdoors in a nearby park, so well-attended
that Adrian had trouble finding a seat. She was slightly out of breath from riding her bike, and she
squeezed an arm around her chest to ease the cramp. Apparently, Theo’s father had been a dentist
of substantial renown; Adrian noticed that most of the mourners had distractingly white and even
teeth.
Shrill wind stifled Theo’s voice as she delivered a eulogy. Her face was tired. After glimpsing her
dryad mother, Theo’s half-humanness was glaring to Adrian—her mother’s skin was a smarter
green, her ears a neater point, the leafy scent perfuming her more saturated. At some point during
the speech, a hazy rain began to fall, so light that it felt like mist.
Adrian studied the back of Pythia’s head from her seat a few rows behind, wishing she could
smooth her hair back from her face. She figured Pythia would probably bite her hand off if she tried.
She had let Adrian braid it once, let her thread the thin dark strands into a waterfall plait. Adrian had
rubbed her thumb up and down over the smooth notches under the guise of making it neater.
Eventually, Pythia grew impatient and yanked the braid from her grip.
As people stood to leave, they filtered past the three-generation mourning trio to offer
condolences.
“I’m sorry for your loss,” said Adrian when it was her turn. She had researched appropriate
phrases to use around grieving people.

7
“Thank you.” Theo squeezed her shoulder. “I appreciate it.”
The dryad mother dipped her head silently.
Pythia didn’t call Adrian a kiss-ass. The two of them walked together for a little while, slipping
away from Theo and her mother and meandering to the lily-pad clotted pond at the park’s center.
“Were you close with him?” asked Adrian.
Pythia shrugged. “Not really. But Theo was.”
“He was nice?”
“Yeah.” She rolled her shoulders as if to wring an ache from them. “That’s why Theo’s so
nice.”
“It is?”
“People with nice parents are nice. You have nice parents, don’t you?”
“I do.”
“There you have it.”
“You think I’m nice?”
Pythia gave her an odd look. “You’re the nicest person I’ve ever met.”
Adrian’s ears felt hot, and she found that she couldn’t quite look Pythia in the face. Pythia
snickered, and they took a few steps in silence.
“We moved here because he was sick,” Pythia said. “Theo wanted to be closer to home.”
“But he’s dead now.”

8
“Obviously.”
Adrian’s throat constricted. “Does that mean you’re gonna leave?”
“No. She wants to stay for a while. To help her mom out. Plus, we like it here.”
Relief. Adrian tried to tamper down her excitement, but she knew Pythia saw.
“Do you think Theo’s mom is gonna get a new husband?” she asked.
“Probably,” said Pythia. “This one wasn’t her first.”
“Really?”
“Yeah. She was married to some other human a long time ago. They had kids together, too.”
“And none of them are alive anymore?”
“No.”
“Oh.” Adrian furrowed her brow. “It must be weird, to be alive after your kids are gone. And
your husband.”
“I guess.”
“Maybe this time she’ll marry another dryad. That would probably be better.”
“I don’t want to talk about this anymore,” said Pythia. Her voice was sharp, and Adrian backed
away from its edge.
“Sorry.”
Pythia toed off her shoes and stepped into the pond. The mud squelched underfoot. Adrian
watched as she leaned forward and splashed water on her face, watched as her gills sucked in the
drops that ran down her neck.

9
A few days later, Pythia got suspended from school. A boy in geometry class called her
“deranged,” so she grabbed him by the horns and slammed his face into the desk. Adrian wasn’t
sure whether this proved the boy right or wrong, but she missed Pythia all the same. Everything felt
dull without her.
“I brought the notes you missed,” said Adrian, shuffling in place on the front porch. She held
out a stapled packet of loose-leaf. Pythia often made snide remarks about Adrian’s handwriting, so
she had tried to minimize her ink smudges. Pythia grunted in thanks.
“Does Fiero still have a black eye?” she asked.
Adrian nodded. “You got him real good.”
“Good.” She ducked back inside and motioned for Adrian to follow. They sat stiffly on the
edge of the couch. Adrian felt an odd sort of tension simmering around Pythia, and she wasn’t sure
how to release it from her.
“Must be nice playing hooky,” she offered.
Pythia scowled. “Not really. My—Theo is mad at me. She keeps saying she’s not mad, but I
know she is.”
“I don’t think she’d lie to you.”
Pythia’s legs swung back and forth, heels thudding dully against the cushion. She was small for
her age—not the shortest girl in ninth grade, but close to it.
“Did you apologize?” asked Adrian.
“Not to her. But she made me write a letter to Fiero saying I was sorry. It was so stupid. I yelled
at her. A lot.”

10
“But you wrote it.”
“Eventually.”
“I guess that’s something. It’s not nothing, anyway.”
Pythia folded her arms behind her head. “You’re bad at this.”
“At what?”
“Giving advice.”
Adrian blinked. “Is that what I’m doing?”
“Forget it.” Pythia reached for the TV remote, and a Jeopardy! rerun flicked on. “This show is so
easy. I bet I’m gonna guess all the answers.”
She did. Adrian guessed one correctly, too—she knew that the Catskill Mountains had their
name derived from a word that meant “Wildcat Creek.” Having grown up in the region, all the
scattered historical tidbits were embedded in Adrian’s psyche. She glowed when Pythia gave her a
sidelong glance, quietly impressed.
“I really don’t think Theo’s mad at you,” she said during a commercial break. “She’s probably
just worried.”
“Worried about what? I punched Fiero because he’s a little shit and he deserved it.”
“Well, she talks to troubled kids for a living, so she probably just wants to help.”
“I’m not troubled, dumbass.”
“No. But I think you’re angry.”
Pythia’s voice tipped into a cool upper register. “Is that what you think?”

11
“I think you’re sad a lot, too.”
She scoffed. “Am I sad right now?”
Adrian looked at Pythia carefully. “No, I don’t think you’re sad right now.”
Something like satisfaction crossed her face. “No, I’m not.”

They floated on their backs down the creek as spring approached summer, a gentle undertow
nudging them around the bend. Two Ophelias with clasped hands and matching school uniforms.
Overhead, the rain-swollen clouds began to empty.
“It’s raining,” said Adrian.
Pythia’s sharp, biting laugh. “Is it? I hadn’t noticed. Are you gonna tell me we’re in a river, too?
Maybe some really groundbreaking—did you know that we’re outside?”
Adrian blinked away drizzle and rolled onto her stomach. She slipped her fingers from Pythia’s
grip. “You know what?”
“What?”
“You’re mean sometimes.”
A beat of quiet. “I’m not mean.”
“Maybe not on purpose,” said Adrian. “But you like making me feel stupid.”
Pythia frowned. “I don’t think you’re stupid.”
This took Adrian by surprise. “No?”
She shook her head. “I’m just teasing.”

12
“Some of it is teasing and some of it isn’t. Or doesn’t feel like it, anyway. It’s hard for me to tell
the difference.” She paused, weighing her next words. “You’re my best friend, you know. But I
don’t understand you.”
Rain popped against the creek’s surface, soft and cold. Pythia dug her legs into the mud. She
took Adrian’s face in her hands and kissed her fiercely. It wasn’t an accident.
“I thought you might,” said Adrian when they broke apart. “But I wasn’t sure.”
“Dumbass.”

Adrian became a regular guest at Pythia’s house. Most days after school, she could be found in
the kitchen rummaging for chips, in the living room curled on the sofa, in Pythia’s room sitting next
to her on the bed and laughing at whatever snarky jokes she was making. Time moved softly,
brightly.
Theo was frazzled and snappish one afternoon.
“Why are you always making a mess?” she barked at Pythia. She had left a heap of ice shavings
on the kitchen table from her latest frozen fish snack. “I don’t know why you can’t be neat.”
Pythia glowered. “What’s wrong with you?”
To Adrian’s surprise, Theo took a moment to collect herself, pinching the bridge of her nose
and turning away.
“I’m sorry,” she said. “I’m out of sorts today. My mother is being difficult—it’s nothing to do
with you. I should have gotten my emotions under control before I came home. I’ll make sure I do
that in the future.”

13
“I think that’s the best apology I’ve ever heard,” said Adrian.
Some of the tension eased from Theo’s face as she laughed. “I’ve had a lot of practice.”
“Really?”
She nodded. “I once took a course on interpersonal conflict, and we had an entire unit about
apologies. A good, thorough apology has four parts: accountability, an explanation, an offer of
repair, and a commitment to do better going forward.”
“I think you checked all the boxes,” said Adrian.
Theo’s gaze moved to Pythia, who was looking disinterestedly at the light fixture on the ceiling.
“Py? Are we good?”
She shrugged. “What’d Enya do to piss you off?”
“Who’s Enya?” asked Adrian.
“Theo’s mom, obviously,” said Pythia.
“Oh.”
Theo waved a nonchalant hand. “It doesn’t matter. We’ll figure it out like we always do.”
“I’m glad,” said Pythia dismissively. “Thanks for being pissy at me for no reason.”
“She said she was sorry,” said Adrian.
“I heard, dumbass.” She started slouching up the stairs. “Come on.”
“Pythia, wait,” said Theo.
Adrian’s surprise grew when Pythia stopped and turned back to Theo, an eyebrow quirked
expectantly.

14
“Come here.”
She seemed to debate with herself for a long moment before obeying, thudding back down to
stand in front of Theo.
“I’m sorry,” said Theo quietly. “I shouldn’t have gotten upset with you. I love you.”
She held out her arms, and Pythia reluctantly succumbed, letting Theo squeeze her close and
sway back and forth, wringing the agitation out of her. Pythia grumbled and slowly elbowed her way
out. She was trying to look grumpy, but Adrian could tell she was pleased. “Don’t be embarrassing.
Come on, Adrian.”
As Adrian bounded upstairs in Pythia’s wake, she threw a glance over her shoulder. Theo was
smiling.

Adrian’s parents were unimpressed with Pythia’s dinner table etiquette, but they liked the
bouquet of wild violets and daisies she brought for them.
Adrian’s father squinted over his bifocals. “So, you’ve always lived in the area?”
They were seated on wicker chairs in the backyard while the sun splintered over the mountains.
All through the meal, Pythia had entertained them with her magic. Most notably, she swapped the
salt and pepper between their respective shakers, causing Adrian to put too heat much on her salad
and cough up black flakes for five minutes. Her parents voiced their amazement, hoping the praise
would satisfy Pythia enough to make her stop.
“We just moved here last summer,” said Pythia. “I used to live by the ocean. In the city.”

15
“Lovely,” chirped Adrian’s mother. Her hooves were a bright shade of coral. She often
complained that the nail salon in town charged too much, but she couldn’t get the same results
when she painted them herself. “And how do you like it here?”
It’s pretty limited, as far as water goes,” said Pythia. “But it’s mostly good.”
“We don’t know much about nereids, I’m afraid. A bit uncommon in these parts.”
“I had noticed.”
Adrian’s parents both worked at the local post office, and they were in the habit of cheerfully
hoking their delivery truck horns whenever they drove past one another. The conversation turned to
discussion of new packaging regulations.
When it was Pythia’s curfew, Adrian walked her to the door. “I think they like you,” she
whispered.
“I don’t care if they like me,” said Pythia, looking pleased.
They stepped outside. The moon was round and ripe. Light from the living room skittered
under the door and washed over the stoop.
“You have so many freckles,” said Pythia accusingly.
“Is that good?”
“It’s your face. Of course it’s good.”
“Oh.”
Pythia closed the space between them. Adrian was accustomed now to the cool brine of her
lips, the insistent press of her mouth. She sucked in a sharp breath to keep up.

16
Pythia pulled back and averted her eyes again. “Tell your parents I said thanks for dinner.”
And she was gone, darting across the street to the neighborhood park. From there, she would
take the river home. Adrian went back inside and found her parents huddled in the kitchen. They
started at the thud of the closing door, looking vaguely guilty.
“Well?” she asked.
“She seems like a nice girl,” said her mother.
“She does,” agreed her father.
“She is,” said Adrian.
She helped them wash the remaining dishes and cups.
“You’re really in love with her,” said her father. “Aren’t you?”
“How could you tell? I hardly got a word in all night.”
“You didn’t have to say anything.”
Adrian wasn’t sure how to respond. “I do love her. I think.”
Her father rested his elbows on the counter. “We want you to be careful. You’re young, and
your heart is in no shape to take a real beating.”
“We’re just having fun.”
“That’s good.”
There was a stain on the checkered tablecloth, so Adrian carried it to the sink and started to
scrub it out. Over the grunting of the refrigerator, an owl sang in the distance.
“She didn’t talk much about her family,” said Adrian’s mother.

17
“It’s kind of a sensitive subject.”
“Well, what has she told you?”
Adrian shrugged. “It’s personal.”
“Too personal for us?”
“Is this an interrogation?” said Adrian.
Her mother’s shawl tightened around her shoulders. “I’m just making conversation.”
When Adrian went upstairs to bed, she dreamed of an underwater castle where she could
hold her breath forever.

Pythia shook the empty bottle of red hair dye in Theo’s face. “What the hell is this?”
“Language,” said Theo calmly.
Adrian tried to pretend she wasn’t listening. She felt she was intruding on something terribly
private. Ever since Pythia found the bottle in the recycling bin a few hours ago, she had been
shaking with rage, pacing the foyer in agitation, preparing to unleash on Theo. Adrian knew better
than to prod her with questions.
“You’ve been dying your hair?” Pythia demanded.
“It was going gray, so I spruced it back up.”
Pythia looked thunderous. “And you didn’t say anything?”
“I don’t report to you, Py. I don’t owe you updates on my beauty routine.”
“I don’t give a shit about your beauty routine,” snarled Pythia. “That’s not the point.”

18
“I think you’re too upset to have a conversation right now,” said Theo lightly. “Especially in
front of your friend.”
“I’m not—”
“Calm down. And apologize to Adrian.” She swept from the room, her steps absorbed
noiselessly by the carpet.
Pythia was breathing hard. The plastic bottle convulsed in her grip. It looked moments
away from implosion.
“Wanna go swimming?” asked Adrian quietly.
Pythia shouldered past her and led the way to the creek.

“She’s not like us,” said Pythia.
Adrian was seated next to her, cross-legged on the shallow bank. The water today was a deep
bone-cold, reaching Adrian’s skin even through the fur of her legs.
“She’s half-human,” acknowledged Adrian. “But what does that mean?”
“It means she’s mortal,” said Pythia curtly. “She has a human lifespan. Just like Enya’s stupid
dead kids and stupid dead husbands.”
“Oh.”
“Yeah, oh.”
Adrian flinched from the old mocking tone in Pythia’s voice. “It’ll be alright,” she offered.
“It’s okay.”

19
An aggravated noise. “Don’t do that.”
“What?”
“Placate me. You don’t need to talk me down like I’m some idiot kid.”
Adrian wrapped her arms around her knees, tugging them to her chest. “I’m not trying to—
to be condescending. But Theo is still pretty young. I’m sure she has lots of time.”
“The second humans stop growing, they start dying. And now her dying is getting faster.
She’s going gray and slowing down. And I keep finding new wrinkles on her face.”
Adrian scooped up a handful of river. She watched the strands of water flee through the
gaps in her fingers. “I don’t really understand death.”
Pythia’s leg struck out, kicking up an angry little wave. “Think if it was your parents.
Imagine if they weren’t going to live forever, but you were. And after they were gone, you had to be
without them for the rest of always.”
“I thought Theo wasn’t your mother.”
“She’s not,” said Pythia. “But I’m her daughter.”
Adrian moved to clasp their hands together, sinking back when Pythia stiffened and folded
her arms over her chest.
She ground her teeth into her jaw and closed her eyes. When she opened them again, the
intensity in her face was frightening.
“Adrian,” she said. “I can’t watch her die. It’ll kill me.”

20
“No, it won’t.” Adrian tried to sound confident, reassuring. “You’ll survive it just like
you’ve survived everything else in your life.”
“What the fuck do you know about my life?”
“Only what you’ve told me.”
“Exactly.” Pythia kneaded her hands together and cracked her knuckles. The sound was
like the cap bursting off a glass soda bottle.
“You have a family, though,” said Adrian tentatively. “A real one.”
“I can’t live with them, remember?” said Pythia.
Adrian tried to stay level-headed. She ran through potential solutions, pretending she was a
computer algorithm designed to fix Pythia’s problem. “Maybe there’s something you can do to make
Theo immortal. Or at least stretch out her life.”
Pythia jerked her head up, eyes flashing. She stood and wiped muck from her scaly legs.
Adrian fumbled to contribute more. “Since you’re so good at magic, maybe there’s a spell
you can do. Or you can give some of your power to Theo.”
This suggestion was apparently a misstep.
“Don’t be an idiot,” snapped Pythia. “It doesn’t work like that.”
“But why not?” pressed Adrian. “You’re so strong. There must be something.”
“You don’t know anything. I’m telling you there’s not. I’m not—I don’t have that kind of
magic.”
“Oh.”

21
“Is that all you can say?”
“No. I’m just thinking.”
“Don’t hurt yourself.”
Shame prickled in Adrian’s stomach. She focused her gaze on a stack of clouds, refusing
to blink until the corners of her eyes stopped stinging. “I’m just trying to help.”
“I don’t need it.”
“I’m going home, then,” said Adrian. “I’ll see you tomorrow.”
She left without waiting for a reply.

Theo:
I don’t need you anymore. It was good of you to let me
stay with you the past few years. Don’t worry about me.
--Py
“Did you know?” demanded Theo.
“No.” Adrian couldn’t figure out why she wasn’t surprised.
“She thinks I’m dying.”
“Is it true? That you’re mortal?”
“Yes.”

22
Adrian studied Theo’s face. She pretended she was Pythia, watching the soft creases around
those eyes deepen and darken, sucking inward to contour the bones beneath. “She was really upset.”
Several moments passed before Theo was composed enough to talk. “If she doesn’t want
to be found, she won’t be.”
She folded the note back into her palm, and when she opened it again, it had vanished.
“Did Pythia teach you to do that?” asked Adrian.
Something in Theo’s expression wilted. “Are you sure she didn’t tell you she was leaving?”
A flare of rage, stunning in its intensity, scorched the walls of Adrian’s throat. “She doesn’t
trust me.”
“That’s not true.”
Adrian said nothing. Theo made a small half-motion with her arm, as if to reach for Adrian,
offer her a one-armed hug. She seemed to think better of it. “Let me know if she tries to contact
you.”
Someone from the police station came to see Adrian later in the day, and she answered a
long set of questions to which she had few answers. The news of Pythia’s flight from town looped
on every channel all evening long, and Adrian pressed her pillow over her ears to stifle it. Her
parents were reluctant to give her space, but they stopped knocking on the door once Adrian locked
it. Dusk came quick. Adrian’s room dimmed around the edges. She felt vacant, and she willed the
feeling to stay. She stretched it, let it expand, shrouded herself in its quiet. She didn’t want to look at
whatever was underneath. And when she peeled the vacancy back one day, there would be nothing
left to see, not even a scar.

23

The water was warm. Adrian dipped her head back and let her hair steep into it. It was calm
in the pool, calmer than the river. Warmer. She didn’t miss Pythia. Everything was dull without her.
If she didn’t want to be found, she wouldn’t be. Theo had gone to stay with her mother. She left the
light on in Pythia’s room. Adrian didn’t miss Pythia. Everything was dull. Dumbass. I can’t watch
her die—it’ll kill me. There wasn’t any news. If she doesn’t want to be found, she won’t be. Adrian’s
parents said she needed something to keep her occupied. A hobby. The water was warm. Chlorine.
Showing up at tryouts meant a guaranteed spot. They need one more swimmer, and you’re
the only one who showed up. Not even you can mess this up, dumbass. The whistle blew, and
Adrian swam hard and didn’t come up for air until she reached the end of the lane.

Souvenir
Sophie Hoss

After my father died in the mine shaft, they left his body on our front lawn next to the
azaleas. The milkman stepped over him to drop our bottles on the stoop, and he rapped on the door
for my mother: Ma’am, there’s something you should see. I was four.
When I try to remember his funeral, all I can fish out is the burn of sun on stained glass.
Catholics believe in something called the Assumption of Mary. This means that when the Holy
Mother died, she left no body—God swallowed her whole. I’ve always appreciated this concept; in
the years following my father’s accident, I sometimes wished that he had just evaporated. That God
had taken him in His palm, folded him into light. This seemed more dignified than the alternative.
I had an operation to get a small brain tumor removed recently, and that sort of thing often
invites introspection. By the time the anesthesia wore off, it was nearly midnight. My surgeon sat on
the edge of the bed with my glasses folded in his lap. He handed them to me, and I put them on.
Everything was a bit too sharp.
How’d I do, Doc?
He didn’t laugh, but I could tell he wanted to. Oh, you were brilliant. You should have seen it.
He happened to be an acquaintance of mine—we ran in similar circles in the local medical
community. Though my job was to shrink heads and his was to poke a scalpel in them, I think we
shared a sort of camaraderie.

2
He told me the surgery was successful: the grape-sized mass had been fully removed. I ran a
hand over my shaved head and found a stitched-up incision at the base of my skull. My fingers
stilled over the thread—this is keeping my brain from spilling out, I thought calmly.
When you looked in my head, I asked, what did you see? 1
He propped his elbows on his knees. The fluorescents tinted his face a hypothermic blue.

I think what I meant to say to the surgeon was this: my sister, who was born a few months
after the mining incident, was named Georgina as my father’s namesake. More than once, she
complained to our mother that I should have been the namesake, what with me being a boy.
I don’t much like the name George, my mother said. But I didn’t know he would need a memorial so soon.
Georgina wasn’t an especially avid reader, but she was very fond of Dickens. She felt that
David Copperfield was her kindred spirit. I was a posthumous child, she liked to quote.
As a young lady, she got into the macabre habit of naming her periods, insisting that each
monthly bloodstain on her tights could have been a baby. Although lobotomies had started to go
out of practice in those days, my mother was under the impression that Georgina needed one.
She’s a disturbed girl, my mother would weep. It’s because I was carrying her when he died. She must have
felt it.
This was the same mother who told me I had been too young to remember my father’s
body sprawled on the yard. By that logic, a fetus in utero could remember, but not a four-year-old
witness. It struck me as unlikely.

1 boygenius. “Souvenir.” Matador. 2018.

3
I hadn’t seen Georgina for some time, but she flew in from Chicago when she heard I was
getting surgery.
You don’t need to do that, I told her over the phone. It sounds like a bigger deal than it is. I’ll be fine.
I know you will, she said. But I want to take care of Hermes. Somebody’s gotta feed him while you’re in the
hospital.
Hermes is the family canary. He was bred to be a mine bird, and his task was to alert workers
of toxic fumes by dying. Hermes was retired from the line of duty because he wouldn’t suffocate
when it was necessary—the sheer strength of his lungs became a terrible safety hazard.
The mining supervisor gave him to us a few days after my father’s funeral. I figured you might
want this.
My mother lifted her widow’s veil and squinted. Why?
If this bird had done its job, your husband would probably be alive.
So what do you want me to do? Snap its neck?
I figured you might, he repeated.
I remember taking the little yellow bird in my hand and flinching as his talons prickled my
thumb.
You decide what to do with it, my mother said to me.
She went to lie down. The doctor had been to see her that morning, and he advised her to
rest as much as possible. Any further stress would risk a miscarriage.

4
I sat on the kitchen floor with the bird and studied him carefully: a judge and defendant in a
silent trial. His eyes were glassy pinpricks, dark and empty. They held no sign of remorse. We lived
just beside the railroad, and the walls shivered whenever a train rattled past. The noise kept startling
the bird into song—he fluttered his clipped wings and warbled frantically. I ran my thumb over his
head to calm him. After a few minutes, I felt him ease into the touch, his tiny avian heart slowing
with each stroke.
I went to my mother’s room and crouched beside her in the semi-darkness. I want to keep the
bird.
She didn’t open her eyes. You’ll need to help take care of it. Can you do that?
Yes.
Then it’s settled.
Hermes didn’t have a name for several years—we just referred to him as “the bird” or “the
canary.” He slept in a little wire crate on my dresser. Once Georgina was old enough to process her
surroundings, she was delighted by him. He liked to perch on the bars of her crib and sing to her
while she babbled. It was only in fifth grade, studying the Greek pantheon, that I encountered
Hermes and decided that his title quite suited my winged companion. He was the messenger god,
the only Olympian permitted to pass in and out from the Underworld. The shepherd of souls. The
light-bearer.

A neurologist came to see me the morning after the surgery. She ran a series of tests that
made me groggy and irritated. I found that a few of my reflexes were delayed, and I had forgotten

5
the words “fork,” “chair,” and “elbow.” My memories from the week leading up to my operation
were blurred beyond recognition. Otherwise, my mind seemed intact.
Hermes was excited to see me, Georgina said when she visited me in the hospital.
I’m sure he was.
She had brought a bouquet of white daffodils and a coloring book page her youngest son
had filled in for me. The flowers were lovely, but the smell was overwhelming—after Georgina left,
I asked my nurse to throw them away. I kept the drawing. The picture was of a cartoony giraffe that
my nephew had scribbled in with green crayon. DEEAR UNKLE! GET WELL. FRUM LOVE
NOAH, he wrote at the top.
I was on quite a heavy dose of pain medication, and my lips were burning and half-numb.
You’re smiling weird, said Georgina.
It’s my special smile just for you.
The words came out garbled, and she suppressed a laugh. My sister’s life runs perpendicular
to my own—we converged at a single point in childhood and haven’t intersected since. Georgina
works as an x-ray technician, and her husband Teddy is a recovered heroin addict turned
motivational speaker and self-help book author. They met on a blind bowling alley date set up by a
mutual friend. I understand that they’re something of an it-couple in their semi-bourgeois Chicago
circle.
I’ve missed how friendly Scranton is, Georgina said to the nurse who came to check my vitals.
I’m sure, said the nurse. Did you grow up here? She leaned against the wall to chat with her,
snagged in the tractor beam of Georgina’s smile. My sister is not attention-seeking—rather,

6
attention seeks her. She attracts it, absorbs it. There’s no element of performance and never a drop
of insincerity.
Later on, she digs a signed copy of Teddy’s new book out of her handbag and props it on
my nightstand. It’s titled Overcoming Obscurity: How to Nurture Your Authentic Voice. She knows that I
think it’s nonsense, but she reads a chapter out loud to me anyway. It’s page after page of hollow
platitudes and nonsensical metaphors—my personal favorite is an anecdote about a bird sharing his
feathers with another bird and then getting turned back into an egg, which is crushed underfoot by a
hiker.
Canaries can live up to fifteen years in captivity. It has been over fifty years since we got
Hermes. Georgina thinks—or maybe convinces herself—that he is an extraordinarily long-lived
bird. Of course, the reality is that I get a new canary every ten or so years and call him Hermes until
I almost forget he’s not the original.
So, Hermes is more of a concept at this point, observed the last man I dated.
Something like that.
Very meta. He fancied himself an amateur film critic, and “meta” was one of his favorite
compliments.

I study trauma for a living, and something I frequently hear is that small children don’t
understand death. This is often true, but not always. When my mother opened the door that
morning and I looked out the window to see why she was screaming, I knew I would be fatherless
for the rest of my life.

7
My mother wanted to move away after he died, but we couldn’t afford to. So, we stayed in
our house a few miles south of Scranton where the roof shed its shingles and the azalea bush
flourished. Its flowers bloomed in slightly different hues every season—some years cream, some
years eggshell, some years honeysuckle. Dark smoke plumed from the low industrial skyline. Smog
and oxygen were comorbid: life and sickness gifted as one.
Our narrow double-ranch house only had two bedrooms, so I shared a room with Georgina
until she stared middle school and my mother decided she needed her own space. I relocated to a
foldable cot in the kitchen. We ate macaroni salad and spam hash. We went to expensive doctor
appointments in Philadelphia to treat my asthma. We put money in the donation basket at church
and left with food pantry cans tucked in our jackets. My mother worked as a court stenographer. She
took the bus into the center of town six mornings a week and returned home to rest her hands in a
dish of ice.
I remember being sixteen and watching Georgina cry in bed about that month’s lost child,
who she was calling “Louis.”
He would have had curly brown hair, she said. And he would have been able to write with both hands.
And who would the father be? snapped my mother.
Georgina sniffled. I don’t need there to be a father. I can have a baby all by myself.
I was very much enamored with my AP Biology class at the time. But unless there’s sperm, the
egg can’t be alive.
My mother wasn’t much interested in the scientific perspective, but she nodded anyway.
Exactly. Are you trying to be the next Virgin Mary? she asked. That’s blasphemy.

8
I just wanted to hold my baby, said Georgina. She blinked, and fresh tears webbed her blonde
lashes. She never did get a lobotomy.
Georgina picked me up from the hospital after my discharge. Prior to my operation, I had
pre-prepared a dozen meals and packed them in the freezer. I figured this would last me through the
worst of my recovery. Georgina ignored my insistence that we heat up one of my dinners in the
oven, opting to order Chinese takeout and put on a rerun of Days of Our Lives. It was uncanny to be
home. I couldn’t quiet the suspicion that in my absence, all my furniture had shifted over a few
millimeters. Everything smelled like dish soap. My head was cold, and Georgina helped me pull on a
knit winter hat.
I wonder if your hair will come back grayer, she said.
You’re such a bully.
Who, me?
My fine motor skills weren’t back at full capacity yet, and forkfuls of orange chicken kept
missing my mouth. I was stretched on the couch bundled in a quilt while Georgina sat on the floor.
Teddy doesn’t like Chinese food, she said. So we don’t have it too often.
How’s he doing?
Good. He was scared to be alone with the kids, but he’s doing fine. Her soft laughter sounded alien to
me. It placed me in a crowded grocery store where I accidentally pushed my cart into a surprised
acquaintance.

9
Here, let me help you. I blinked. My hand had gone limp, and Georgina was steering my fork
into my mouth. Up close, she looked less like our mother than usual. Her thin hair was still damaged
from dying it too often in college.
Hermes began to sing, softly.

My night terrors didn’t begin until I started at Penn State. Usually, my lungs would slowly fill
with coal. I’d wake up expecting charcoal to leak out from under my eyelids.
I started out as a double major in philosophy and chemistry, thinking I would either be an
academic, a public attorney, or a cardiologist. I went to football games and made friends at bonfire
parties. My roommate knew Italian, and I often asked him to speak it to me while we made love on
the floor. He had a beautiful voice—deep and melodic—and when I got lost in his words, I sent my
mind flying away. It usually went to the ruins of ancient Greece; I stepped carefully around the
crumbled perimeter of the Parthenon and squinted at a sun so bright it had no shape.
When I came home during winter recess.

I was engaged to someone for most of my thirties. We had plans to drive out of state and get
married at a courthouse, and we broke it off because he wanted to adopt a baby and I didn’t. In the
aftermath, I went to see my mother. She had been briefed on the situation by Georgina, and she was
waiting on the porch when I arrived.
You’re a good boy, she said.
She put her arms around me, and I rested my chin on top of her curly head.

10
We went inside. She watched me eat a slice of coffee cake while she stood at the sink
washing dishes.
I thought this might happen, she said.
What?
I should have gotten remarried. That’s why you can’t keep a relationship now—you didn’t grow up with a
proper family.
I put down my fork. I’m my own person. So is Georgina.
She said nothing. I finished the coffee cake, but it didn’t taste like anything.
My mother had refused to let me hold Georgina as a newborn until I promised to walk her
down the aisle at her wedding.
If she can’t have a father, a brother is the next best thing, she said.
Fatherhood seemed beyond my capabilities as a child. I did my best—plastered bandages on
her roller skate scabs, spread jam onto Wonder Bread toast for her after-school snack, plaited her
hair, brushed out the tangles. There were only four years between us, but being taken care of by
Georgina after my surgery made me feel infantile. I wondered if she made any deathbed promises
about me to our mother. Her health had been in decline for some time, and in the end, it came
down to an ugly bout of the flu. Look after your brother, I picture her saying. If he can’t have a mother, a
sister is the next best thing.
I have one memory of my father from when he was alive. I was walking with him to the post
office to mail something out, and one of his friends waved to us from across the street.
Handsome little fella you got there, he called. What’s his name again?

11

Francis, said my father. But we call him Frankie.

I am often asked about retirement. I’ve reached the age where my colleagues slyly tell me
about their friends who have moved to Florida as if they are discussing a surprise party. But I don’t
want to look too far ahead—my odds of long-term survival are unclear, and I want to have patients
for as long as I can talk.
My current roster includes a man with agoraphobia, a young woman struggling with
imposter syndrome, a little boy with a restrictive intake eating disorder, a man experiencing a
depressive episode after a job loss, and a woman preparing for a cross-country move. I don’t have a
particular specialization in my practice, but I consider myself an expert in coping. Coping with crisis,
coping with grief, coping with coping.
My first real client was a gangly man called Lachlan who was going through a horribly messy
divorce. Most sessions, I couldn’t get him to say much beyond, I can’t believe this is my life. I would nod
understandingly and prod him with gentle questions about his sleeping habits and childhood and
goals for the future. Eventually, I asked what he wanted to get out of our time together.
I want to feel in control of my life, he said.
I smiled. Well, that can be hard to do.
But not impossible.
No, not impossible.
I was still in therapy myself at the time. It was a mandatory part of the licensing process—to
analyze another, one must be analyzed oneself. I understood the logic, of course. But I was adamant

12
that I didn’t need to help myself in order to help others. Still, I tried to comply. I offered my psyche
up to the school-delegated doctor, a woman with a rounded Midwestern accent and long pink
fingernails. I think her name was Helen. She had a somewhat Freudian approach to psychotherapy,
and she had me lie on a leather couch facing away from her, angled instead toward a large potted
plant. I believe it was a fiddle leaf fig, but it may have been a bird of paradise. The lights were dim.
In our first session, I gave her an entirely fictionalized account of my life and background. I
was from Montana and had been raised on a ranch. I had an irrational fear of horses as a child and
thought I would get stampeded to death. I had a sister who was ten years my senior. My parents
liked taking us on road trips through the mountains. I’m not sure which subconscious well these
details were dredged from; I don’t think I even meant to lie. Of course, there was no way to
backpedal, so I dragged out the lie until I was told that I didn’t have to see Helen anymore. Her
ballpoint pen never stopped scratching until I closed the door behind me.

During my recovery, I thought about the surgeon often—his easy bedside manner, his
palpable calm, his gray eyes flecked with blue. Once I was released from bedrest, I asked him out to
dinner. He agreed. I was no longer his patient—I was scheduled to see a neurologist for the duration
of my recovery—and he said it would be nice to check in and talk. I wasn’t cleared to drive yet, so
Georgina dropped me off at the restaurant.
Have fun, she winked.
We’re colleagues, I said. This is purely professional.
My bad. Have boring doctor-talk, then.

13
He was a bit of a messy eater, which surprised me. I had expected him to approach
everything with the precision he brought to the operating table. Maybe he was only able to summon
that intense concentration because it was dormant when off the clock.
It&#39;s great see you doing so well, he said. I knew you would pull through.
I was surprised when he asked me what books I had read recently. I thought he already knew.
I’m reading my brother-in-law’s new self-help book, I told him.
What’s his name?
Teddy Larkin.
His whiskery eyebrows shot upward. No kidding. I’m a big fan.
Are you really?
I’ve got all his books at home. His second one is my favorite—Triumph Over Traction, I think it is.
Impressive, I said.
What’s he like? the surgeon asked.
He’s very nice. He’s a good husband to my sister. A good father to my nephews.
But you don’t like his writing, he observed.
Not particularly, no.
Why not?
I feel like his advice is a bit generic.
He inclined his head slightly. It shouldn’t be substituted for professional help is what you mean, right?

14

Right.
I agree.
Why do you like him, then?
He’s been through so much. And he knows himself so well. It kind of feels like he knows me, too.
It’s a good feeling, isn’t it? I said. To be known.
The best.
We split the bill and went out to the parking lot.
I can drive you home, he said.
In the car, he kissed me with soft precision, teeth scraping into my bottom lip like a butter
knife. I opened again.

So far, my scans have all come back clean. I’ve resumed work and am adjusting to my old
routine. It was nice to see my patients so relieved at my return. Maybe that’s egotistical—enjoying
the feeling of being needed—but it’s a pleasure I’ll indulge.
It’s late now, and my chamomile tea has gone cold. I put it in the microwave for thirty
seconds, and it blossoms with renewed steam. Georgina has been gone for weeks. We call each
other frequently, but usually the other doesn’t pick up, so we leave each other lengthy voicemails
that clog up our answering machines. I miss her. The surgeon has asked me to accompany him on a
trip to Maine this summer. We’ll drive along the coast until we reach our seaside hotel. I can picture
it: the craggy shore, the salt, the waves dark and boundless at night. I want to sit on the rocks with
him. I want to close my eyes, feel the wind.

15
Hermes is asleep in his cage, small head burrowed underwing. I think I can hear him
breathing, but that might just be the radiator. I refill his dish of birdseed and brush my pinky finger
over his soft body. It’s dark out. Spring is coming in a few weeks and the air feels nice. I take my
spoonful of pills and leave a window open when I go to bed.

Little Beast
Sophie Hoss

You scared me at first.
I don’t know how long you watched me, but when I noticed you, a gasp hitched in my throat.
We stared at each other, still as fixed stars. The dark stretch of grass yawned between us.
Amber eyes, unblinking. Matted fur and pointed ears. You cocked your head.
Your move.
Barely breathing, I slid off the porch and lifted my arm towards you.
“Hi,” I whispered. “It’s okay.”
Your nose twitched. There was a terrible nakedness as your eyes prowled over me. Whatever
you saw made you slink forward, head ducked low, and snuffle at my hand. You were roughly the
size of a teddy bear.
There was no collar, no name tag. No other houses in sight. A rusted town a half-hour drive
down the mountains.
“Where’d you come from?”
Wouldn’t you like to know.
Your skin stretched tightly over your ribs. I inched back inside and left the screen door
propped open behind me. When I returned with a bowl of water and a piece of canned chicken, I
kept my eyes lowered, dreading looking up to find you gone. But there you were, waiting.

~

2
At the time we met, it been a few months since Willa passed. I found that she was even
louder in death than she was in life. People still called the house from time to time, and whenever
they did, I promptly fell back into my role of her assistant. I had been hired as a live-in nurse, but
over the years, the medical and personal meshed until they were indistinguishable.
“Hermia Aldrich residence,” I greeted. Most people only knew Willa by her penname.
The caller would say they had an opening for a book signing, an available position as a
workshop instructor, a pitch for a new series, or some other pressing opportunity. For all their
supposed interest, they didn’t seem to be up-to-date on Willa’s current predicament.
“I’m sorry to tell you this, but Ms. Aldrich is unfortunately no longer with us. This is Sheridan
Cain speaking, manager of the Aldrich estate.”
A click on the other end. I stood, grasping the phone like a lifeline as dust motes sighed past.
Those calls were really the only time I spoke. But once you came into the picture, my voice,
hoarse with disuse, found its lilt again. I scolded you, I called after you, I chattered incessantly.
You were so skittish, and you cried whenever I left your line of sight: your claws dug into the
bathroom door. You flung your body against the windowpane when I stepped outside to grab the
mail. At night, you slept curled on my shoulder.
Being needed felt good.
It was odd to fall into some semblance of a routine, and stranger still to look after myself
again with some regularity. Ever since the morning when I woke up and Willa did not, I hadn’t
brushed my hair. Eaten only when I forced myself to—a spoonful of peanut butter here and there,
maybe a few saltines. I went days without sleeping and then went days without getting out of bed.

3
Even as a kid, I was always a bit peaky-looking—spindly frame, pale hair, hooded eyes. I don’t want
to know what I looked like during my time as a living ghost.
I was a little embarrassed by the state of the house when you arrived. Willa had enjoyed
comfortable clutter— “Can’t stand when things are too neat,” she said. I disagreed, but over the
eight years I worked for her, I became accustomed to the cabin’s decor. Even grew to like it quite a
bit. From the Andy Warhol prints, overflowing bookshelves, assorted candles, and mismatched yard
sale furniture, everything was patchworked and vintage, artfully worn. Soft jazz was always playing
from a little silver radio.
Now, with one less person, it was suffocating—the cozy disarray had quickly devolved into a
pigsty. I pretended to look away as you pawed at strewn boxes, peered at crusted dishes brimming in
the sink.
Finally, I relented.
“I’m getting this place in order,” I announced.
You paused from gnawing on the table leg and blinked. About time.
“I don’t know what to do,” I told you as I cleaned. “She left me this cabin. And some money.”
Oh?
“But I have nowhere to go.”
You’re stuck.
You padded over to me, and I knelt down to stroke your head. You leaned into the touch.

~

4
The backyard went as far back as we wanted it to. The New Hampshire forest was dense and
limitless, lush with wet dirt and mist and bird cries, clustered with spruce and birch and mountain
maple. I knew these woods like a map of the subway—over the years, I’d made countless routes and
trails to wander down, sometimes with Willa, but mostly on my own.
You yipped at my ankles as we tramped through knotted brush. Sunlight darted between
boughs. You leapt clear over rotted trunks, you sloshed through creeks, you bounded in circles
around me. Your tail wagged.
How great is this?
“It’s wonderful.” I was surprised at the bounce in my step. Sometimes I even caught myself
humming as I walked.
I started bringing my sketchbook with me. Cross-legged on the ground, charcoal likenesses
bloomed on the page: weathered pinecones, veined bark, my own smudged hand. Drawing was
always a meditative escape—one I had been denying myself.
Every so often, your ears perked up. You would bolt off and return a few minutes later with a
dead squirrel or chipmunk clamped in your jaw.
Just a little gift. No need to thank me.
“Good boy.”

~

I tried, again, to put a resume together. I had a nursing license from Queensborough
Community and a few months’ experience at a pediatrician’s office. My gig with Willa was the
highlight of my career—unfortunately, I couldn’t exactly get a posthumous recommendation letter.

5
I wasn’t even sure I wanted to continue with healthcare. Willa had died at eighty-nine with
diabetes, arthritis in both knees, osteoporosis, and a stubbornly erratic heartbeat. “Natural causes”
was the hospital’s verdict.
I rambled to the EMTs about how I took her blood pressure twice a day and administered
her pills and insulin injections. Every checkup I’d driven her to concluded with a clean bill of health.
“Sometimes, people just die,” one of the emergency room doctors said gently.
Objectively—professionally—I understood. But I was supposed to be the line of defense
against natural causes. Willa’s daily medication schedule was still pinned to the refrigerator. I
couldn’t make myself take it off.

~

On a whim, I dug out my set of paints and unfurled a canvas sheet from under my bed. Before
I knew what I was doing, the outline of your face was bleeding onto the page in bristled gray
brushstrokes. I felt your eyes on my back.
Do I really look like that?
“More or less.”
You nuzzled your head onto my leg. I swished my brush into the pallet over and over in a
mindless rhythm—a drop of paint on the tip, a skim across the paper, a dip in water, another drop.
Your likeness faced me head-on, somber and elegant. Your eyes blazed eagle-like. Behind you, I
dabbed in swirls of dark emerald.
Nice job.
“Don’t flatter me.”

6
The more I studied the picture, the more I hated it. Within an hour of completion, it was
shredded in the garbage.

~

I fell into bed one night with one of Willa’s books—Cordially Yours. One of her earlier pieces, it
detailed a long-distance friendship between two boarding school students. I had started it once and
never finished. I wasn’t much of a reader—in my initial job interview, I shifted in my seat as Willa
prodded about my favorite novels.
“I like working with people who have different brains,” she said reassuringly. “Sometimes I get
tired of mine.”
I woke with my face pressed into Cordially Yours’ open pages. Some vague, unsettling dream
had roused me. Your slumbering body was splayed across my stomach—your weight, once barely a
pillow, now pushed uncomfortably on my ribs. Your brow crinkled, eyelids twitching. I wondered
what you dreamt about. I rubbed your forehead with my fingertips, and you perked awake.
What’s wrong? You rolled to the floor in one languid motion.
“Nothing, nothing.”
I sat up and brushed an arm across my cheek, half-expecting Willa’s printed words to be
smeared on my skin. My hand came away clean.
It’s late for you to be up.
According to the digital clock on my bedside table, it was early rather than late. A slim part in
the curtains hinted a cobalt sky.
“I’m gonna step outside. Want to join me?”

7

Obviously.
Night air did wonders for me. As kid, I savored the view from my apartment’s fire escape.
Light pollution bleached out the stars, but it was nice to just lean against the railing. Feel a little
breeze—cold and delicious—and inhale the city’s erratic pulse. I always dreaded being called back
inside.
You liked night air, too.
By this point, you had started to grow into your frame—your hollow sides filled out, your
twiggy legs muscled. You now stood knee-high to me. A tall, quiet sentinel.
We sat on the wispy grass and watched the blackness flicker above. Constellations blazed,
snagged in the Milky Way’s silver tendrils.
Minutes passed, then an hour. My eyelids heavied and burned, and each blink was more
strenuous than the last. After a while, I stopped resisting.
A gargled screech pierced the silence. I jerked awake, whirled my head to where you were no
longer crouched beside me but being clawed into the air by a ghost-white owl—it hovered several
feet off the ground, eyes yellow and starved.
My scream lodged in my throat. The owl’s talons clutched your back and stomach, and its beak
snapped out at your head. You writhed and panted. Helpless. I lunged at the owl without thinking. It
skidded upward, away from my grasp, dragging you with it. I fumbled on the ground for a rock or a
stick or an anything to throw.
But in a flash of teeth, your jaws were latched onto its wing. You tore at the feathered flesh,
slicing it easily. The great bird ambled sideways and shrieked. A twist of your body, and your jagged-
nailed paw punctured the owl’s stomach. The two of you crashed to the earth.

8
The owl keened and flapped its remaining wing pathetically. A soft, rolling chirp. Its eyes
roved with blind fear. You pounced on the bird before it could move, ripping its skin, shredding its
feathers with tooth and claw. Dark blood spattered your fur and mingled with your own fresh
wounds. The crazed butcher ended abruptly—the owl went limp and still. You flung the carcass
aside.
I only remembered to breathe when you nuzzled your wet snout against my ankle.
I’m okay.
I looked down. My legs were shaking, but I couldn’t feel the tremor. I couldn’t feel anything.
“Oh, God.”
Sorry you had to see that. But in my defense, you weren’t much help.
“Inside. Go back inside.”
~
From then on, I kept you on lockdown. I would take you out just once a day for no more
than ten minutes. I couldn’t burn away the image of you bloodied in the air, seconds from slaughter.
How could I have just stood there?
It was hard to keep you reined in. Brief frolics in the woods couldn’t appease you—energy
pulsated from your skin and trembled beneath your fur.
You stalked around the house, sidling against walls and bumping into furniture. I ignored you
when you scratched at the door, pleading to go outside for the tenth time. You tugged on my pant
legs as I drowned out your whines in busywork.
Let’s go, let’s go! What’s wrong with you?

9

If I still didn’t give in, you caved into a ball at my feet.
Fine. Have it your way.
Why had the wilderness I once saved you from become your siren song?

~

When you had gone three days without eating, I drove you an hour and a half to the nearest
veterinarian. You lolled in the backseat. I glanced at you in the rearview mirror every few seconds,
knuckles ghastly white on the steering wheel.
By the time I eased you onto the examination table, you were in a fitful sleep. I ran my hands
through your fur and whispered to you. Every so often, your glazed eyes winked open.
The veterinarian froze when she saw you.
“Ma’am, are you aware this animal isn’t a dog?”
“Pardon?”
Her gingery eyebrows vanished into her bangs. “That is a wolf.”
“I don’t…what are you talking about?”
She snapped on plastic gloves and crossed the room to where you lay. She pried open your
jaw, peeled back your eyelids. “Where did you adopt him? And how long ago?”
“He was a stray puppy I found outside my house. I took him in about six months ago.”
Her eyes tightened. “And you didn’t bring him in for a checkup? Or call the station to report
a found dog, see if someone was looking for him?”
“No.”

10

She waited for me to offer further explanation. None came.
“Well, what I’m looking at here is most certainly a pure wolf,” she said as she checked your
pulse. “Or close to it.”
“What’s wrong with him?” I asked.
A sharp exhale. “I don’t know yet. I’d have to run some tests. But wolves in a domesticated
environment are at higher risk for health issues than your average dog. Has he been getting
exercise?”
“We go for a long walk every day.”
“For three to four hours?”
I hesitated. “I don’t know. Maybe.”
“Do you live in a spacious home?”
“Not really. It’s a little cabin.”
She shone a light into your ears. “Frankly, I think a big part of what’s going on here is canine
depression. Your friend here just isn’t getting the freedom he needs.”
I ignored her. “Can you run the tests so I can find out what’s wrong?”
She paused.
“Because it’s illegal in the state of New Hampshire to privately own a wolf, I’m going to have
to call Animal Control.”
When I tried to speak, I found that my tongue was latched to the roof of my mouth. The
veterinarian pursed her lips.

11

“I’m sorry, but it’s the law. It isn’t safe to domesticate a wolf. It makes people
nervous—wolves can be very loyal to one person, but their behavior is unpredictable. They’re
hunters.”
My lips were numb. “What’s gonna happen to him?”
She rested a gloved hand on mine, eyes round with sympathy. It was the first time another
person had touched me in almost a year.
“If there was another option, I would absolutely give it to you.”
“Couldn’t—couldn’t he go back to the forest?”
“He’s been living with you for a while now. There’s no way to know if he’d be able to
acclimate back to the wilderness. Releasing him could be a death sentence.”
“It already is.”
She rose and pulled off her gloves, neatly depositing them in the trash can. “I’ll give you a few
minutes alone.”
She excused herself. When she came back into the room, we were gone.

~

Tires whirred on the pavement. I had lain you in the passenger seat, and at the car’s sudden
jerking, you stirred and looked up blearily.
Where are we going?
“I don’t know,” I whispered.

12
We skidded onto the highway. I rolled the windows down to give you some air. You titled
your snout to the wind.
“Is that a little better?”
You have no idea.
My foot was steady on the gas. Miles slipped under the tires like sand through fingertips. The
surrounding trees grew denser and taller, but the mountains stayed rigid, never growing
closer—silhouetted and locked in place against the sky. I didn’t know what would happen to you.
But a trial by fire was better than no trial at all.
I finally pulled over and wove the car through a gap in the overgrown forest. You sat
upright, nose sniffling at the earthy rot. It was dusk, and your eyes were bright in the gathering
shadows.
I rested my hand on your head. “I’m so sorry. For everything.”
You did the best you could.
I wasn’t so sure, but I didn’t argue. You eased yourself onto my lap. We held each other for a
long moment—you nestled your head in the crook of my elbow, and I cradled you like a newborn.
You were so soft. Beneath my hand, your sides swelled with each breath. I nudged open the door
and stepped outside.
You leapt noiselessly onto the ground, and our eyes cut into each other: a familiar stalemate.
You whined as I began to walk backward, but you didn’t follow.
“Will you be okay?”
Your paws dug into the dirt.

13

I was born for this.
As I started the engine, I nearly doubled over in the driver’s seat. I clenched my jaw against
the dry sobs. I wouldn’t cave. I couldn’t. But as I backed up the car, desperation flooded in—I
decided that if you came chasing after me, frightened and pleading, I would take you with me, I
would figure something else out, I would do anything, anything.
When I chanced a look back, you had vanished.
My shameful bargaining quieted, and the car broke through the forest’s hem and rattled back
onto the highway. I wouldn’t return to the cabin tonight. The road was deserted and winding and
badly paved. I stepped on the gas. I kept heading north.

Softly, Gently, Softly

The second girl sweeps into arabesque—a sleep-dancing marionette.
“Good, good,” says Apolline. “Good.”
Copper-haired faces tilt towards her like sunflowers. There is no music here. Only
Apolline’s sharp-tongued instruction and carefully-meted praise. A meadow that rolls into tufted
trees. A sky sifting gray and pink.
The third girl yawns her arms upward. The first bounces onto pointe.
“Higher,” barks Apolline. “One two three, one two three…”
Some time ago, Apolline crouched in the wet clay and molded these children, these
daughters. She anointed them with slippers and flower-woven skirts. The first thing she taught them
was to arch the toes, to turn out the foot.
They were pliable, obedient. Loose-limbed and eager to spin after the sound of Apolline’s
voice. Their clay is drying now. Their features solidifying. Soon, they will wake.
The fourth girl is the trickster. She is the one whose eyelids flutter, straining against their
own webbed-shut skin. She is the one who snags her searching hands on the bushes. Is she hoping
to find a doorway? Or does she expect someone to lower a hand from above, haul her up and away?
No matter. The girl will learn. She must. As long as they dance, the meadow will bloom and
the rains will come and the clay will be ripe when it comes time for the girls to mold their own.
Apolline looks at her own hands, caking in white, cracked splinters. She is the last one of her sisters
now. Ash melting to dust. Grave ceaselessly becoming womb.

Summon the Moon

Anouk’s cousin Hugo finds the exorcist in Woodstock.
“I think this lady is the real deal, Nou.” His handlebar mustache quivers.
“She better be, for that price,” says Anouk. “When’s she coming?”
“Tomorrow morning. Early.”
“Good.” She wills herself to look away from the kitchen wall, still pockmarked with
silverware exit wounds.
“I swear, shit like that doesn’t usually happen,” Hugo says. “Not this bad, anyway.”
Anouk adjusts her owlish glasses and frowns. “You’re saying it’s my fault?”
He shrugs.
J. Barreau &amp; Sons Funeral Services is a family business, but Hugo handles most of the
affairs. Anouk has been staying in his apartment above the parlor. More specifically, on the sofa bed.
The tap water here has a foggy look to it and the air conditioning is busted. Hugo sings Don
Giovanni in the bathtub at ungodly hours. Still: until the haunting intensified, Anouk was having a
fine time. It’s a lovely scene, really—the funeral home is a brick colonial perched behind trim
hedges. Her uniform is a satiny black pantsuit, and she gets to pick up phone calls and greet people
at the door.
Because she’s a therapist-in-training, Anouk finds the work quite stimulating.

Sophie Hoss

“What stage of grief do you think you’re on?” She asks later that day, ushering a balding man
into the viewing room.
He blinks. “Acceptance.”
“Give yourself permission to cry,” she tells another mourner.
“Did I ask?”
Last semester, Anouk did an internship at an outpatient treatment center. Her supervisor
wrote in a performance review that Anouk was “off-putting.”
She’s been trying to fix that.
The wake this afternoon is for an elderly florist. Flocks of black-clad townies drift in to
kneel beside the open casket and swipe their eyes with tissues. Their shoes scuff the blackened
hardwood. Over the years, Hugo has fine-tuned the ambiance just-so: candlelight waxes a golden
sheen across the Victorian wallpaper; classical piano floats from hidden speakers.
“He’s your brother, right?” asks a sniffling woman. She jabs her chin at Hugo. He’s across
the room fussing over the placement of a daffodil bouquet.
“Yup,” says Anouk. “He is.”
It’s an almost-truth. People frequently assume they’re siblings—sharp-boned faces, olive
skin, deep-set hazel eyes, hawk-like noses. Same black hair, though Hugo’s is straight and Anouk’s is
wavy, usually bundled in a heavy braid.
The word “brother” is tether-like—to Anouk, it sounds right. It feels good to claim
someone as being close to her.

Sophie Hoss

At the service’s close, Hugo sees the casket over to the grave site. Anouk stays behind. In the
back office, she picks at a crossword puzzle and leafs through a stack of bills. Drums her ballet flats
against the shag carpet. Eventually, she gives in and takes a swig from Hugo’s flask.
Anouk doesn’t drink, so she never swallows the vodka—just swills it on her tongue and
wonders how it would feel sliding down her throat. Maybe it would blur the memory of being
hoisted into the air by her ankle last night. Unseen grip, cold and vicelike.
At any moment, Christ could call up the souls of the faithful and leave the sinners behind on
Earth. Then, the trumpets would sound.
Anouk spits the mouthful out the window. Vodka droplets fleck the too-green grass. Her lips
taste like gasoline.
When she turns around, a leather-bound book is clapped open on the floor. Grandfather’s
Bible. Anouk blinks hard. As she wonders whether it was already there when she walked in, a single
page peels itself up and flips neatly over.
She stoops down. Her fingers brush over the page, butterfly wing thin.
The first verse of Revelations gapes back. The Apocalypse.

Hugo’s recruited exorcist waves shyly. “Hey.”
She looks about Anouk’s age. Piercings glint in her nose, ears, and left eyebrow, and a
constellation of black-inked tattoos weave down her arms.
“This is Cricket Zhao,” says Hugo. “And this is Anouk. My cousin.”
Heat pricks Anouk’s neck as she waves back. “Thanks for coming on such short notice.”

Sophie Hoss

“Of course.” A small, gap-toothed smile.
Hugo holds out a rubber-banded wad of cash, but Cricket brushes it away. “You can pay
me when I’m done. Mind if I set up in your living room?”
“Be my guest.”
She steps daintily over the foyer, Doc Martens printing down crusted mud. Hugo leads her
around the corner, chattering in the bright voice he reserves for small talk. Anouk trails behind.
Her eyelids sag with each blink. She slept fitfully last night, questioning whether she should
tell Hugo about the Bible.
She settled on keeping quiet.
It feels a bit vulnerable to have a guest up here. Hugo’s friends always hang out at bars, and
Anouk’s few acquaintances in town never seem keen on visiting the apartment. The privacy has
almost begun to feel sacred. Everything of Grandfather’s remains untouched, but Hugo has added
his own flourishings to the décor. It makes for a curious motley. The worn leather couch sits atop a
sleek, geometric-patterned carpet; French oil paintings share wall space with vintage movie posters;
the scrolled brass curtain rod seeps with champagne-colored silk.
Anouk tries not to hover as Cricket paces about. Hugo, though, seems at ease.
“I see what you were talking about,” says Cricket. “The air feels heavy. Like lead.”
“I guess a place like this is susceptible to haunting,” Hugo reasons. “Hosting dead people is
a risky business.”
Cricket hums. “Maybe.”

Sophie Hoss

She crouches down in the center of the room and lights a candle—she’s nudged aside the
coffee table to clear space. She carefully lays down a ring of salt, crushed thyme, and rose petals,
murmuring as she works. Her hands are small, fingers spindly and precise.
Anouk turns away. She stares into the chandelier’s searing lightbulbs until her eyes water.
“What I’m doing,” says Cricket, “is creating a casting circle for myself. An energy bubble,
basically. It’ll give some protection for the banishing rites.”
Together, the ingredients give off the slight scent of a bouquet trampled underfoot.
“Where’d you learn all this stuff?” Hugo is perched catlike on the kitchen counter, legs
drooping off the edge.
Cricket smiles. “My college roommate, mostly.”
“Ah.” He nods knowingly.
When she’s completed the circle, Cricket rises and drifts between rooms with a wad of
smoldering sage.
“Let this home be cleansed of all hostile energies,” she says over and over. “Make room for
only light.”
The apartment blooms with an herbal lull. Anouk breathes slowly through her nose. She
imagines the wispy tendrils seeping into the walls’ crevices and the furniture’s bones, dredging out a
hidden darkness.
Sunrise dapples the walls a soft orange. The sinking half-moon is sliced into eighths by the
blinds.
“It feels better in here already,” says Hugo.

Sophie Hoss

Anouk doesn’t know what he’s talking about.
“Now I need to cleanse your auras.” Cricket’s thick lashes cast shadows on her cheekbones.
“Me first,” Says Hugo.
“Alright.”
Cricket circles him with the clump of sage, shrouding him in smoke. She withdraws a bottle
from her knapsack and gestures for him to kneel. He does, closing his eyes as she flicks beads of
water on his head.
“Can you actually see my aura?” Hugo asks once she’s finished.
Cricket nods. “It’s orange. With a little bit of red.”
“Is that good?”
Cricket shrugs. “It’s just how it is.”
“What’s mine?” Asks Anouk.
Cricket gives her a quick, sweeping once-over. “Dark green.”
Anouk is a good head taller than Cricket, but she feels oddly childlike next to her. Cricket
wafts the sage and then drizzles her in cool water. It drips down Anouk’s face. She tastes salt.
When she opens her eyes again, Cricket is scraping a finger alongside her candle, catching
drips of wax.
“A protection charm,” She explains.

Sophie Hoss

She reaches out to blot the wax on Anouk’s forehead. Before they can touch, the
floorboards shudder in a violent seizure. Picture frames topple. The glass windowpanes quiver like
rubber. Furniture slides, and Anouk, Cricket, and Hugo stagger. The chandelier blinks into darkness.
Anouk fumbles down the wall, groping for the light switch.
And in that hour there was a great earthquake.
She freezes. Grandfather’s voice, unbidden, coils through her thoughts—a circling viper.
The shaking stops. The lights flick back on.
“Are you okay?” asks Anouk. The words scratch raw against her throat.
Hugo rubs the red goose egg on his forehead with a shaky hand.
“I have to check the parlor,” he rasps. “See what the damage is.”
A moment later, the door is swinging shut behind him.
Cricket props herself up from where she’s sprawled on the carpet. “That wasn’t
supposed to happen. Sorry.”
Anouk blinks. “It wasn’t your fault—it was an earthquake.”
“I don’t think so,” replies Cricket.
She grabs her bottle and stands, spritzing water into each corner of the room. She’s
murmuring again, but her voice holds an intensity that was absent before. An urgency.
Hugo’s footsteps clomp back up the stairs. He sways in the doorway, grasping the wall.
“Well?” says Anouk.

Sophie Hoss

She pictures strewn chairs and a smashed cuckoo clock. The filing cabinet knocked
upside-down.
“Everything is fine,” he says. “Nothing moved.”

“I feel like I don’t have the full story,” Cricket suggests lightly. She tips half-and-half
into her coffee, stirring it a fawn brown.
Anouk digs a fingernail into her blueberry scone. They’re sitting in the bakery window
seat.
“I don’t really know what Hugo told you,” she says.
Cricket shrugs. “Just that there’d been a lot of incidents. Doors slamming randomly.
You getting pulled out of bed. Hugo seeing shadows. Plates and silverware being thrown.”
Getting breakfast was Cricket’s idea. After they cleaned the remnants of the shaking,
Hugo got stuck on a phone call with the mortuary.
Why don’t we go grab coffee? Cricket had asked Anouk quietly. I think we should chat.
“It’s nothing you haven’t heard before, right?” asks Anouk. “I think it’s pretty classic
haunted house stuff.”
Cricket leans back. Her choppy flips of golden-brown hair scrunch against the glass.
“Were you and your grandpa close?”
Anouk nods. “We spent a lot of time together.”

Sophie Hoss

Her parents frequently deposited her at Grandfather’s doorstep. She passed many
weekends standing beside him as he ironed his simple black suit over and over. Sitting across the
table from him with their respective Cream of Wheat breakfasts. Listening to him speak with clients
in that soft, raspy voice curled in a light French accent—his mother had come from Toulouse a
century ago and picked her way through the Hudson Valley.
Cricket quirks an eyebrow. “But were you close?”
“Of course,” says Anouk.
Her shoulders feel tight. It’s one thing to ask probing questions in a therapy session
and another to be thrust into the receiving end without warning.
She glances outside. The village stores have their doors propped open. Green-backed
mountains arch in the distance. A pickup truck ambles past, engine rumbling softly.
“Is it normal for ghosts to warn you about things?” Anouk asks.
Cricket hums. “Not unheard of.”
She lets the question smolder, unspoken, until Anouk gives in.
“Something happened yesterday,” she admits, clearing her throat. “My grandfather’s
Bible threw itself across the room at me. It opened at the Book of Revelations—that’s the part
about the apocalypse.”
“Does that mean something to you?” asks Cricket.
Anouk feels herself nod. “He was a French Calvinist, you know. And he had this—
this fixation with the Second Coming. He trained us to look for signs that it was about to happen.”

Sophie Hoss

Pestilence. Famine. War. Death. The Four Horsemen contain multitudes, Grandfather had
said. It will begin with a shaking of the earth. And darkness. Hugo didn’t visit as often as Anouk did. He
never seemed to give the warnings much thought, much less swallow them and let them fester.
Anouk glances up at Cricket, relieved when she doesn’t see any trace of concern.
“Calvinists believe in predestination, right?” asks Cricket. “God has already picked out
who’s going to heaven, and our actions don’t matter?”
“That’s part of it,” says Anouk. “I don’t—I don’t really believe in it, though. Not
anymore.”
“Well,” says Cricket. “The spirit in the apartment isn’t responding to my regular
purification ritual.”
“It’s too strong?” she asks.
Cricket purses her lips. “Not necessarily. Things can backfire if you don’t truly want
the entity gone.”
“I do want it gone,” Anouk replies. “Wouldn’t you?”
Cricket hums. “There’s something we can try. A waterfall purification.”
“Is that what it sounds like it is?”
“Pretty much. We’d have to hike up into the Shawangunk Mountains—there’s a spot I
go to that has really good energy.”
“Would Hugo have to go, too?”

Sophie Hoss

Cricket shakes her head. “I was able to finish his cleansing spell without interruption.

Yours was the one that got messy.”

She tips back the last of her coffee and checks her watch.
“I need to take off soon—I’m opening the shop today,” Cricket says. “Give the
waterfall purification some thought, okay? Call me later and let me know if you want to do it.”

“I don’t have your number,” says Anouk.
Cricket’s ears pinken. “I’ll write it down. You got a piece of paper?”
A minute later, the tangle of bells on the bakery door chime as Cricket sees herself
out. Anouk traces the digits of Cricket’s phone number, scrawled on her wrist in purple ink.

The following afternoon, Anouk picks Cricket up from her workplace—a

metaphysical store on the outskirts of Woodstock called The Dreaming Stone.

Hugo had been skeptical. “Is she charging us extra for this…waterfall spell?”
“No,” said Anouk. “She won’t even take the money until the haunting completely

stops.”

He nodded approvingly. “I told you she was the real deal.”
Anouk clambers out of her gray sedan and creaks open the shop door. It’s a cozy
space with wood-paneled walls and winding stacks of New Age paraphernalia: tarot cards and
crystals and dream catchers and incense. Hanging baskets drip with ivy and succulents. Overstuffed
cushions are stacked in a corner next to a pot of complimentary green tea.

Sophie Hoss

Cricket waves from behind the counter and grins. “Hey!”
“Hi.” Anouk wanders over to her. “How’s it going?”
“Pretty well, thanks. You?” She adjusts the sleeves of her jean jacket and tucks a

loose strand of hair behind her ear.

“Not bad,” says Anouk. Her hands rest awkwardly on her hips.
Last night had been uneventful, in terms of the supernatural. The kitchen cabinets
rattled menacingly a few times, and then the apartment fell silent. Anouk had lain awake again,
though, waiting for the lurking spirit to stop holding its breath and strike out. In her mind’s eye, the
ghost had a clear form now: Grandfather’s lined, bushy-eyebrowed face, peering down from every
angle.

“Thanks again for driving.” Cricket lobs her wallet and cell phone into a hemp

handbag.

“You taking off?”

Anouk turns to see a guy with a blond man-bun and slouchy jeans pop out of the
break room.

“Hey, Waylon. Yeah, I am.” replies Cricket. “This is my client, Anouk. We’re gonna

go do some witchy healing stuff.”
“Dope.” The guy nods in Anouk’s direction, but keeps his gaze on Cricket. “Have
fun. You look really nice.”

“Thanks,” says Cricket, flashing a quick smile. “See you tomorrow.”
Anouk is ashamed of the cold lump crystallizing in her chest.

Sophie Hoss

Cricket’s classic rock playlist accompanies the easy silence during the drive. After
about twenty minutes, they pull off into a quiet parking lot, grab their bags, and pick their way up
the forested mountain face. Cricket leads Anouk single-file down a dusty trail. The afternoon sun is
strong—sharp, golden light pierces the pine boughs and forces Anouk to shield her eyes with her
hand. A frog glugs somewhere in the underbrush. The air is muggy, and Anouk quickly finds herself
wiping sweat from her brow.
“What’s up with that guy Waylon?” She eventually brings herself to ask.
“Waylon?”
“Yeah.”
“Not much. He’s a good worker.”
“And he’s…nice?”
“Yeah, he’s nice.” Cricket glances at Anouk over her shoulder. The corner of her lip
twitches upward. “What, do you think he’s cute or something?”
Anouk looks away. “He’s not really my type.”
“Me neither,” says Cricket. “I like nerdy guys and tall girls.”
Anouk glances up to track the path of a meandering airplane. “Do you have a
preference?”
Cricket shrugs. “Not really. I just like the person, you know?”
“Gotcha. That’s cool. I, uh, just like girls.”
“Cool.”

Sophie Hoss

The cold pit in Anouk’s chest recedes, folding itself back into water.
They chatter on. Anouk learns that Cricket plays the keyboard in an indie band called
The Artichoke Hearts, that she’s double-jointed, that she used to do ballet, and that she’s “half
Chinese and half Scottish or Welsh or something.”
“You’re in college, right? What do you study?” Cricket asks.
“Psychology,” says Anouk. “I’m working on my certification in mental health
counselling.”

Cricket’s mouth pops open. “That’s amazing!”
“Thanks.”
A fawn and a buck toe through the cracking leaves, undisturbed by the presence of

hikers.

“I don’t know if I’m very good at it,” Anouk admits.
Cricket’s eyebrows scrunch together. “What do you mean?”
“I like people. But I’m not a people person.” Anouk doesn’t know where the words
are coming from. She can’t seem to make them stop. “I feel for them, but I can never really reach
them.”

A long beat of silence follows.
Cricket pauses and turns around, and Anouk nearly walks into her.
“I can’t make you believe otherwise,” Cricket says. “But if it means anything, I think
you’ll reach lots of people. I think you already do.”

Sophie Hoss

A peal of laughter bursts from deep in Anouk’s chest. She’s startled to find herself
blinking back tears.

It’s dusk by the time they arrive at the waterfall. Tucked deep in a cove of dripping moss,
water guzzles over a rocky ledge and into a clear pool. A dense sheath of mist rises from the
waterfall’s mouth. Birds cry in the distance. Yellow fireflies blink in and out of existence. Anouk
stands back as Cricket kicks off her shoes and wades into the pond.
“C’mon!” calls Cricket. “The water’s not bad.”
Anouk steps out of her sneakers, cuffs her jeans, and follows. The water sears cold
against her bare legs, and she fights back a shiver, trying not to slip on the smooth stones.
“What if he’s right?” asks Anouk.
Cricket waits at the foot of the waterfall. “I thought you said you didn’t believe in it.”
“I don’t.”
Anouk tips her head back to the lavender sky. The moon is waxing.
“You deserve to be free,” says Cricket.
Anouk feels Grandfather looming just out of sight, perhaps even right over her
shoulder. Why would God spare you?
“I’m ready,” she says.
She sloshes through the shallow pool to stand beside Cricket.
“Remember what I told you to say?”

Sophie Hoss

Anouk nods and steps under the gushing waterfall.
“Purge me clean,” She says. “Purge me clean. Purge me clean.”
Exultation pours forth.

The sun doesn’t offer a prolonged farewell—it simply ducks, colorless, below the
horizon. The air turns blue in its wake.
They drive with the windows rolled down and find themselves back at the apartment,
lying side by side on Anouk’s pullout bed. Hugo has left a note on the fridge: Out with some friends.
Will be back late.
“For the longest time,” whispers Anouk, “I was terrified of being alone. I thought the
Rapture would come and everyone would go to heaven except me.”
“The world isn’t ending,” says Cricket. “It’s just waking up.”
They drink in each other’s silhouettes. Moonlight shafts through the blinds and spills
across cream-colored sheets. Humidity swelters.
Anouk skims her thumb across Cricket’s cheek and twines a strand of hair around her
finger. It’s as soft as she imagined. Cricket slips a hand beneath Anouk’s blouse, traces the notches
of her ribcage with a cold finger. Chapped lips mouth haloes onto her collarbone, her jaw, her
eyelids. Anouk takes Cricket’s hips in her hands.
Somewhere in the night, cicadas are humming.